# Machiene-Learning-Project


In this project the implementation of analyzing the covid-19 vaccines dataset to forecast required vaccines compare to manufacturing or available vaccines and by using this forecasting manufacturers may increase and decrease their manufacturing quantity. Various vaccines manufacturers are compared in terms of their impact on the society. Machine learning (ML) has proved itself as a prominent field of study over the last decade by solving many very complex and sophisticated real-world problems. The application areas included almost all the real-world domains such as healthcare, autonomous vehicle (AV), business applications, natural language processing (NLP), intelligent robots, gaming, climate modeling, voice, and image processing. ML algorithms’ learning is typically based on trial-and-error method quite opposite of conventional algorithms, which follows the programming instructions based on decision statements like if-else [1]. One of the most significant areas of ML is forecasting [2], numerous standard ML algorithms have been used in this area to guide the future course of actions needed in many application areas including weather forecasting, disease forecasting, stock market forecasting as well as disease prognosis. Various regression and neural network models have wide applicability in predicting the conditions of patients in the future with a specific disease [3]. There are lots of studies performed for the prediction of different diseases using machine learning techniques such as coronary artery disease [4], cardiovascular disease prediction [5], and breast cancer prediction [6]. In particular, the study [7] is focused on live forecasting of COVID-19 confirmed cases and study [8] is also focused on the forecast of COVID19 outbreak and early response. These prediction systems can be very helpful in decision making to handle the present scenario to guide early interventions to manage these diseases very effectively. This study aims to provide an early forecast model for the spread of novel coronavirus, also known as SARS-CoV-2, officially named as COVID-19 by the World Health Organization (WHO) [9]. COVID-19 is presently a very serious threat to human life all over the world. At the end of 2019, the virus was first identified in a city of China called Wuhan, when a large number of people developed symptoms like pneumonia [10]. It has a diverse effect on the human body, including severe acute respiratory syndrome and multi-organ failure which can ultimately lead to death in a very short duration [11]. Hundreds of thousands of people are affected by this pandemic throughout the world with thousands of deaths every coming day. Thousands of new people are reported to be positive every day from countries across the world. The virus spreads primarily through close person to person physical contacts, by respiratory droplets, or by touching the contaminated surfaces. The most challenging aspect of its spread is that a person can possess the virus for many days without showing symptoms. The causes of its spread and considering its danger, almost all the countries have declared either partial or strict lockdowns throughout the affected regions and cities. Medical researchers throughout the globe are currently involved to discover an appropriate vaccine and medications for the disease. Since there is no approved medication till now for killing the virus so the governments of all countries are focusing on the precautions which can stop the spread. Out of all precautions, "be informed" about all the aspects of COVID-19 is considered extremely important. To contribute to this aspect of information, numerous researchers are studying the different dimensions of the pandemic and produce the results to help humanity. To contribute to the current human crisis our attempt in this study is to develop a forecasting system for COVID-19. The forecasting is done for the three important variables of the disease for the coming 10 days: 1) the number 0f New confirmed cases. 2) the number of death cases 3) the number of recoveries. This problem of forecasting has been considered as a regression problem in this study, so the study is based on some state-of-art supervised ML regression models such as linear regression (LR), least absolute shrinkage and selection operator (LASSO), support vector machine (SVM), and exponential smoothing (ES). The learning models have been trained using the COVID-19 patient stats dataset provided by Johns Hopkins. The dataset has been preprocessed and divided into two subsets: training set (85% records) and testing set (15% records). 
